Python's got some built-in functions
that can be used as an alternative
to comprehensions. Generally, I suggest using
comprehensions instead, and in fact Guildo
van Rossum wanted to remove map and
filter from Python altogether, but was
instead persuaded to keep them. Now you
can find his reasoning about this at the
link that I've got on the screen there
now, and this link is in the resources
section of the video. This is well worth
a read, even if you're one of those
Python programmers who like to use map.
So we're going to take a look at these
functions, because you need to be
familiar with them in order to
understand code that uses them. So we'll
start with Map, and I'll use an earlier
comprehension example from the course, so
that we can see both methods producing
the same results. We're going to swing
over to IntelliJ and I'm going
to create a new project. Make sure that I
select the right project SDK which will
be the latest version of Python, and I'm
going to call this one map and I'll make
sure I've got it in the right folder
here, Finish, and then we'll create the
actual project, the Python file, as well.
I'm going to call that
map_intro. Okay, then I'm going to paste
this code, that I talked about from an earlier
video in this course, to save a bit of
time, and what I'll do is run the program
to make sure that it actually works.
So I right-click and select Run and you
can see we've now got the results
appearing at the bottom of the screen.
Now this program is using two
comprehensions. The first produces a list
of all the characters in the text,
capitalized. The second produces a list
of all the words in the text, again
capitalized. Alright, so we can do the
same thing with the map function. So what
I'll do is I'll put the corresponding
map code after each one then we'll see
what it's doing. So I come down
here firstly and we'll just make a comment -
the fact that we're using map here - so
use map, and this will be map underscore
capitals
is equal to
list left parentheses map left
parentheses str dot upper comma space
text and then closing off the two,
closing off by selecting the two right
parentheses. Then we'll just print that
out, map underscore capitals. We'll go down
below the second comprehension and put
some map equivalent code, so we'll put a comment
there to that effect - map underscore
words, this time, is equal to list left
parentheses map left parentheses str
dot upper comma space text dot split
parentheses is going to be, two single
quotes with a the space in between them,
and the three closing right parentheses. Then
we'll just print out at the value of
map underscore words. So if we run the
program again now, you can see there
that we've got the identical output. So map
takes two arguments. The first is a
function and I've used the upper
function from the string class str.
Remember that when passing a function as
an argument, you don't include the
opening and closing parentheses. When you
use parentheses you're passing the
result of calling the function, but here
we want to pass the function itself.
The second argument's an iterator.
You can use anything that can be
iterated over, such as a string or a list.
So map underscore capitals is using the
string text and map iterates over each
character in the string and calls the
str dot upper function for each one. It
then builds up another interable which we
convert to a list. Map underscore words
is doing the same thing but creates an
interable by splitting the text into
words. Split returns the list, remember,
so the split list is an interable that
map's iterating over, and that's
basically what map does. It calls the
function for each item in the interable
and stores the result in a new interable.
So we've used that interable to create a list,
but we could have, instead, just iterated
over it. So as an example there,
we could type for x in map parentheses str
dot upper comma text dot split,
then in left and right parentheses, single
quote and a space between, and the two
closing right parentheses and a colon on
the end there, so we iterate over
each element, and then print and in parentheses, x.
So if you run that, you can see that this
is exactly the same map code, but instead
of converting the interable to a list, we
iterate over it and print each item.
And you can see there that the output was
the capitalized words from text. So is
there anything to be gained from using
map instead of a comprehension? In my
opinion, I'd say there isn't.
The comprehensions are easier to write
and more importantly, easier to read. It's just
more obvious what they're doing,
which was Guido's main reason for wanting to
remove map from Python 3. But what about
performance? Well you now know how to
test that performance yourself. However,
there are ways to make timing functions
even easier, and it may not have been
obvious from the earlier video. It's a
technique I'm going to rely on in the
next few videos, and I'll take the
opportunity to introduce it and explain
it here. So it's now challenge time.
So the challenge is to wrap each of the
four blocks of code in function
definitions then use the timeit module
to time each one. Remember to import timeit
at the start of the file. Now my
solution will use a slightly different
approach, to save time in the video. The
test of whether your solution works,
though, is if it successfully times all
four approaches to capitalizing the
characters and words in text. Alright
so that's the challenge. Pause the video
and see how you go with it, and when
you're ready come back and you can view
my solution. So pause the video now.
Alright, so welcome back. Let's go
through the solution to the challenge,
step by step. So the first step is
to include each code block in a function
definition, so let's do that. So starting
at the top here, on line 3, we're going to
make that a function. I'm going to add a
line, def space comp underscore caps
parentheses colon
and then we'll indent the code, the next
two lines, and we'll change the print to
a return capitals. That's the first one,
and we need to make sure that we're
spacing this out correctly. We need two
lines, like so, to avoid those warnings or
to get rid of those warnings. Next we
want to create the map underscore caps
function, so def space map underscore
caps parentheses colon. We'll indent these
two lines again, converting the second
line, instead of a print to a return,
and remembering to add two spaces or two
lines between the end of the function and
the start of the next one. Next one we're
going to call def comp underscore words
because it's a comprehension version, so
comp underscore words parentheses
colon, indent again and return words. Okay,
and then the fourth one, making sure
we've got two lines there separating it,
and it's going to be def map underscore
words parentheses colon.
We'll indent these two lines, and this time we
want to change the variable name here, to
avoid any problems. I'm going to call
that map underscore x instead, or map
underscore w it should say, for map
underscore words, and then we're going to
return on the next line, map underscore w.
And then ww want a two line space there.
Well actually, what we can do now
is delete that, because you no longer need
that other code. Before attempting to time
the function, we should really call each
one just to make sure that it still
works. So let's do that. So I'm going to add
if on line 26, underscore underscore name
underscore underscore equals equals single quotes
underscore main underscore
underscore so, we've done that a
number of times now, a colon, and let's print them
out. So print comp underscore caps, the first
function, results, second one, print map
underscore caps,
third one print, it's going to be
comp underscore words and the fourth
one, print map underscore words. Okay.
Let's run the program to make sure
it works, and you can see that it's working
nicely. Alright so let's finish the video
here. In the next one, we'll move on
and we'll start timing the call to these
functions. So I'll see you in the next
video.